>> Jem Young: Cuz we do
the JavaScripts here.
Let's create a shell script with Node,
cuz we can do that too.
What's gonna happen with
the shell script in Node?
It's gonna open up Node and it's gonna
run through the scripts, pretty simple.
You're saying, why not just write
a standard JavaScript application and
run it with Node?
You can do that too but
this is kind of a lazier way of doing it,
because it's just gonna execute without
having to do Node name for your script.
>> Jem Young: But we have a bonus in
here and I'll tell you about the bonus.
What makes writing on node
shell scripts so much fun.
So let's just make a directory called
workspace, call it whatever you want,
make it your home folder.
Just cuz the things we're gonna do,
we don't wanna install,
I won't give it away and
you have access to the slides.
But I won't give it away.
But you wanna make your own folder for
this.
Cuz we're gonna make an untamed script.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: On our server?
>> Jem Young: Yes, on your server.
Sorry.
>> Jem Young: So make a workspace
folder and just move in to that and
then touch index.js
>> Jem Young: Touch is
a fun command because all it does is it
change the modification time on a file.
If that file doesn't exist than it makes
it for you, that's what touch does.
We can all say vi index.js,
putting it to vi, open it, close it.
It's just faster if you want
to just create an empty file.
Create it with touch.
It's one of those final ones, right?
Let's do it man touch, so
many options, so many options.
Remember I said we only do
the basics everything has a man file
everything has way more
flags than we'll ever use.
Wait 1fn man man, yes.
The manual has a manual
on how to use manual.
Yes, Phoenix, but all right,
I'm gonna make a directory.
Sorry, I got a little distracted there.
Make a directory, and
call it workspace, and
I'm just gonna move into workspace.
Awesome, I'm gonna touch index.js, cool.
Ls index.js, right?
Everybody with me?
Nothing complicated.
Let's create a new project.
I don't know if you've ever used npm init,
but it's a pretty useful command,
it sets up everything for you.
So let's say, npm init, we're actually
making an npm module as a node script.
That's awesome.
And call workspace,
that's fine, that's fine.
Defaults, defaults.
>> Jem Young: Cool.
And if we look,
it created a package.json for us.
So cat, and it just creates
a pretty basic npm package.json.
It's kind useful,
like npm init, or like npm.
>> Jem Young: So let's edit
the package.json real fast because
we want a link to the binary.
The scripts were gonna execute that,
executing is binary so
it's like I don't need to
actually run it as a node script.
I'm gonna run it as a binary,
as an executive log.
So in package.json just add
the line bin for binary and
you can call it my script,
you can call it whatever you want,
you can call it load scripts,
it doesn't really matter.
So I'm just gonna do that
here vi package.json and
it scripts doesn't matter.
Say,
>> Jem Young: Bin.
>> Jem Young: And
have it always create the closing bracket.
>> Jem Young: And what do I wanna call it?
I'm gonna call it my script, so,
actually I'll call it loadscripts.
That's how I remember what it is.
And we're just gonna point to
index.js as our scripts that
we're gonna run, index.js.
Is everybody a little bit happier now?
Back in JavaScript land, for now.
>> Jem Young: So I added the reference
to the binary, just index.js and
we are just gonna write quit on that one.
Everybody good?
Cool.
>> Jem Young: Next, we're gonna do the
same thing we just wrote with that shell
script but we are gonna do it in node.
And you'll note all the extra
work we have to do the same work.
Now, we're starting to see the benefit
of writing in shell, writing in batch,
versus writing in node.
Because we have to
execute these processes,
we have to open all these other things,
but let's go and do that.
If you wanna cheat, because I know
it's getting close to lunch, and
I'm as hungry as you.
In the comments I put all these codes and
you just copy-paste it because I
respect you, and
I figure you know how to do this part,
because I'm gonna do the same thing,
don't judge me.
Copy, paste.
>> Jem Young: Make you prettier.
>> Jem Young: So what does the scripts do?
It does the same thing we did,
it gets the load average from proc and
it executes that.
But now we have to worry about standard
out, standard in, standard error.
We're not gonna enable any standard error,
standard in because we're not reading
anything in this file, and
it shouldn't throw any errors.
Generally, you wanna
handle standard error,
otherwise you'll be running errors and
nothing will be outputted.
But because we don't know when this is
gonna execute, it's gonna execute when it
has free CPU cycles, we'd have to
create an on function with a callback.
Everybody knows what call backs are?
Yes, Frontend Masters, you're masters
of the call back, and/or promises.
We could do this with probably async, but
I don't wanna get too complicated with
the promises and thing like that.
But we're just saying on standard out,
>> Jem Young: It's gonna get some data and
we're just gonna split out that data,
nothing to it.
>> Jem Young: Now, if you wanna
handle standard in or standard error,
it's vstat.standarderror,
stat.standardin, yeah.
So let's go ahead and
write and close that.
>> Jem Young: I didn't put the good
part in here, I must have left it out.
Now, the good part, this is the fun part.
So if we npm i -g, nothing attended to it.
We're gonna create a script that will run
globally without us having it called node
and we can run it from anywhere
because it's a shell script.
So if we npm i -g, all right?
What did I call that script?
Loadscript.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, so they'll load,
it's all zeroes, we won't be for long.
But now, we created an npm module that
we can just run the shell script from
anywhere in the system.
That's the cool thing about
why we're doing it in npm and
not just a standalone system.
>> Jem Young: Important note,
if you make changes to the file because
npm is blinking a reference to the file,
you have to npmg every time you update it.
We can do it a different way, just so you
know if you're making changes that shell
script and it's not updating,
just npm i -g again.
But that's pretty cool, so
now I can create shell scripts
in a programming language that
I'm familiar with, JavaScript.
And I can run them anywhere on the system.
That's pretty cool.
That's really useful.
>> Jem Young: And again, there is
a course on Shell Scripting and VIM and
Regex that I highly recommend you take if
you wanna get more on your shell scripting
and your nuances.
Way more commands like calendar and date,
time, things like that, if you want.
This is enough knowledge for us for now.